Open source
Virtual machine - computer inside a computer , virtual box, vmware
Terminal - type all the commands, manage all the files
Terminal Commands -

File :

ls( show all file), 
Cat (read a file)
Cat > (write a file)
vi filename -> esc -> : -> wq
ls -a (show hidden files),
touch(create file),
rm(remove file), 
cp(copy a file), cp story story2
mv (move a file,rename), mv story other/story
Grep ( search for a word in a file), grep button file
Diff (difference  between two file)
Echo ( print) 
File : owner(u - user), group(g), everyone else(o)  (read write execute)
Chmod (change file permission), chmod o+w name
4 - read, 2- write , 1 - execute, 0 - no permission
sha1sum/ sha256sum name - To make sure a downloaded file is valid (run the hash algorithm)
Gzip file - compress a file 
Gunzip file.gz - decompress  a file 
Tar cvf new.tar file1 file2 - compress multiple file
Tar xvf new.tar - decompress file


Directory :

pwd(show current directory path),
cd (change directory), 
mkdir(make directory) , 
rmdir(remove dir), 

User :

whoami (know the current user
Sudo useradd/deluser username - adding / removing new user
Sudo groupadd username - adding groups
Cat /etc/passwd - viewing user
passwd(change password)
 
Ifconfig
Ip addr show 
ip addr add 

Sudo - super user do   - sudo apt-get install php
Bash (run a shell script)

ssh :

Ssh (secure shell) 
Ssh -keygen -t rsa (key generation)
Ssh nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config (change the default ssh port)

Authentication - who can access
Authorisation - how much can access

Storage device in linux :

Fdisk ( get information about disk)  , fdisk /dev/sda, fdisk -l
Mkfs
Fsck (file system check)ir 
Adding a drive - 1. Partition(fdisk) 2. Adding file system(mkfs) 3. Mount (mount)
formating a drive,
What are the root directories -  /dev(files related to the hardware), /etc (stores all configuration files),
/opt (space for third party software such as java,program and packages), /proc(currently running processes), 
/var(contain variable data), /tmp(contain temporary file)
what is file system (file system control how data is stored and retrieved)
What are some of the file   windows(fat, ntfs), linux (ext, ext2, ext 3, ext4)
What is cloud computing ? creating virtual machine on demand in cloud

Computer networking (internet is the biggest computer network): multiple computers are connected to a single computer
Sharing data
subnet - network within a network
Data - documents, picture , video
Types of networks : 
Based on reach/size  : 
LAN(all computers are in the same building),connected by wires
Man ( bigger than lan, all computers in a city)
Wan (biggest computer network, wan is made up of multiple man, larger than 30 miles, eg internet,telephone company)
Parts of a network 
Nodes and communication media(they provide ways to transfer data between nodes)

Server (special computer that many different  users can access) eg amazone web server
Client (getting the service, get a file or data)
server(give the service, give the file or data)
NIC(network interface card) part of the computer that allow to connect to the internet, eth0, esp0s3
Protocol : are the rules for communication,  one person talk at a time, specific messages recieve specific responses
Hyper text transfer protocol, tcp, ip , udp

Topology : bus(very cheap), ring(cost than bus) , star, mesh
Osi model :(open system interconnection ) 
application layer(chrome, firefox,email)
Presentation (os resides in this layer, encrypt data)
Session (conversation between two computers)
Transport (packets are delivered)
Network (determine the route for data)
Data link (nic’s / checking for errors)
Physical (physical medium like cable , fibre optics)

Modem (device that connects your network to the internet),convert digital signals to analog signal
Router
Switch
Repeater (accept small signal and amplify it)

Ip address : to identify each device
Subnet mask
Network ip = ip address AND subnet mask
ip addr add ip/subnet mask
Ip and port are the key to connect to a server
Nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config (to know the port number)
Ufw allow firewall management ,  sudo ufw allow 777/tcp, sudo ufw show added, sudo ufw enable

Apache ( web server)

Dhcp (dynamic host configuration protocol) - automatic assigning of ip address to a system
DNS (domain name system)

YAML :yet another markup language , data representation language
Dictionary (key : value pair),unordered
List (ordered)

JSON(java script object notation): data representation language, used to store and save data

GIT : is a software used to track changes in a project , it helps multiple user work on the same project
Git config --global user.name “asdf”
git config user.name
Git init( initialize git project in a folder)
Git repository is the location were all the files in a project are located
Commit :save the current status of project
Git add .   ,   git commit -m “adding”
Git status
Git log
Git rm file
Git restore file
Git checkout file 
Github : website used to make public project, biggest collection of git repositories
git remote add name http
git remote rm name
git push(upload a file)
git pull 
git clone(downlaod a file)


Flask : web framework for python, python library to develop webpages
@ signifies a decorator
template (basics structure or layout with html in it) contain html files
static (contain static files like css)

(from flask import Flask,render_template
app = Flask(__name__)
@app.route("/shopping")
def shopping():
    food = ["cheese", "burger", "pizza"]
    return render_template("shopping.html" , food=food)
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run(debug=True)
)

http : protocol in a webserver
http methods:
get (request data from a specified resource)
post (used to send data to a server)
put (update a resource)
delete (The DELETE method deletes the specified resource)
http to https : 
buy an ssl certificate -> 
http return codes - response message to inform clients of their request’s result
1xx: Informational
2xx: Success - 200 (OK), 201 (Created), 202 (Accepted), 204 (No Content)
3xx: Redirection - 301 (Moved Permanently), 302 (Found), 304 (Not Modified)
4xx: Client Error  - 400 (Bad Request), 401 (Unauthorized), 403 (Forbidden), 
	404 (Not Found), 405 (Method Not Allowed), 415 (Unsupported Media Type)
5xx: Server Error - 500 (Internal Server Error)


ssl (secure socket layer) - protocol that create encrypted communication
tls (Transport layer security) - 

port identifies a specific process / network service
it is located inside a NIC
ssh - 22
dns - 53
http - 80
https - 443
flask - 5000
mysql - 3306

API application prgram interface
Used by applications to interact with each other
eg : using the facebook api you can get user detail, comment details etc
rest api - api used in webpages


openssl (to generate keys)
cirtificate authority (verifies the cirtificate, ca) eg : , symantec,digicert ,globalsign
public key - .crt , .pem
private key - .key , -key.pem


Machile Learning: 
in python use the package tensorflow
loss - measure the loss(mean squared error)
optimizer - Based on the loss function, it will try to minimize the loss(stochastic gradient descent)

javascript - scripting language used to make webpage more interactive
<script type="text/javascript">
document.write( print)
alert 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sudoku web game :
Developed a sudoku game using html, css, javascript , python-flask
installed mysql on windows
connected mysql with python using python package







To revise :

Numbers - binary, hexa
32 bit vs 64 bit
Ssd vs hdd(spinning disk) - performance , cost 
Memory vs disk
Terminal vs shell
Authentication vs authorisation

What is git?
What is git repository? How is it created?
What is git commit?
what is a pull request? 
what are branches in git hub ?
what is flask?
what is a server?
what are http method? 
what is api? 
what is rest api? 
what is http return codes?
what is http request?
what is http response?
what is ajax?
what are the js frameworks? jquery, angular js, react js, vue.js, (vuemastery.com)
what is software testing?

What is agile methodology?
Old software development methodology was waterfall methodology. 
Each phase is done one after the other. The problem with that is it is hard to make changes,
and more time consuming to add new features or make changes. 

That's why agile methodology. Project is devided into chunks or set of features, and each set 
is implemented in an incremental way. 
Agile methodology helps in improving time to delivery. Features are developed in short "sprints" - 2 weeks. 

